Sometimes we receive an assignments or a responsibility that we feel pretty confident that we can handle.
Perhaps we've done it before. We've received some training. So it gives us the confidence to charge full speed ahead.
But then there are the other assignments and responsibilities that we feel very overwhelmed with.
We feel very small and they look so gigantic to us.
Well, we need to stop and think. Well, maybe I've tackled this before in the past or maybe I haven't.
But when I was successful in the past, what was it that helped me to succeed?
And how can I use this going forward in the future?
Today's theme scripture, taken from Mark chapter 1 and verse 11,
gives us some key ingredients, the recipe, the formula for success in the future.
Let's read this together, but let's look at the context of what was taking place here.
The key is to whatever challenge we may face, be it small, medium, or large, or maybe even gigantic,
here are the keys that we want to remember.
Let's start with Mark chapter 1 and verse 9. Of course, we see here that Jesus is getting baptized in the Jordan by John.
And then in verse 10, it says, and immediately on coming up out of the water,
he saw the heavens being parted and like a dove, the Spirit, God's Spirit coming down upon him and then God's voice.
A voice came from heaven from the heavens, you are my son, the beloved.
I have approved you.
And immediately the Spirit impelled him and it impelled him to do what?
To go into the wilderness, and so he continued in the wilderness for 40 days, being tempted by Satan.
He was with the wild beasts.
So very challenging assignment, but notice what Jehovah did for his son that he loved.
It says, but the angels were dispatched and they began ministering to him.
Imagine how Jesus must have felt when he audibly heard his father say to him, I love you my son.
You have my approval, you have my support, and you have my backing.
It really must have touched his heart. It really gave him joy and gave him confidence to fulfill his task, his assignment.
The study note for this verse is very interesting. I have approved you.
It said it could also mean I am well pleased with you or I take great delight in you.
It's almost as if Jehovah was saying to Jesus, son, I love you very much.
I am so proud of you. I have your back. I always have and I always will. I will be here for you.
And Jehovah was from the very start of Jesus' earthly ministry until he took his last breath and died and sacrificed his life for us.
Jesus faced so many circumstances that were challenging, tests of his faith, very difficult trials.
But whatever he went through, he was successful. How?
Well, we know that although he was perfect, he wasn't an island. He didn't rely on himself. He relied on Jehovah for support.
Yes, he received strength from Jehovah's voice, as well as his written word, his powerful Holy Spirit, and he was strengthened by his brothers in heaven, the angels.
So what can we learn from this? Well, many things. We learn that like the angels, you do not have to go through a certain trial or an experience in order to be encouraging to others and strengthen them.
We learn that Jehovah's example really helped Jesus that he was there to support him and give him that confidence.
And isn't it encouraging when someone notices and commends you for the good work that you do, whatever you do at Bethel, in the congregation and other areas of your life?
Our fellow Bethelites, our friends in the congregation, our workmates, our family members, all need love and they need encouragement.
And when we commend others, we strengthen them. Yes, we encourage them so they can continue to serve Jehovah loyally and with joy, despite any difficult challenges that they may face.
It's important to put our feelings of appreciation into words. That's exactly what Jehovah did for his son. And we know that Jesus did that constantly while he was on earth.
Yes, words of appreciation let others know that we care for them, that we really appreciate, that we notice what they did.
Our brothers and sisters need to hear such reassuring words.
One sister, for example, said this, at my secular work, I seldom get a compliment. There's a cold and competitive climate.
So when an elder commends me for something I've done for the congregation, she said, it's so refreshing and so energizing.
It makes me feel loved by my Heavenly Father.
So we know how it makes us feel, but this sister really expressed it well. Do we take the time to put our words into action and our thoughts into words?
If you see something commendable, say something commendable. That's the example Jehovah said for us.
Sincere commendation can strengthen, lift our spirits, deepen our joy and help others to overcome giant-like obstacles and problems.
Speaking of giant-like problems, is there someone in the Bible that you can think of that actually faced a real giant? Of course, David.
And we know what happened when he was younger with Jehovah's help. He was able to cut that giant Goliath down to size.
However, years later, when David and his men were battling the Philistines, David faced another gigantic problem.
This time, the giant had another face, another name, Ish by Binab. Maybe you've heard of him before. Very intimidating giant.
But no problem for David, the giant killer, right? Wrong.
Let's look at what happened in 2 Samuel, chapter 21, and we'll start with verse 15. Notice what happened when David fought a giant this time.
That second Samuel 21, verse 15. It says, once again, there was war between the Philistines and Israel. So David and his servants went down and fought the Philistines.
But notice, David became exhausted. A descendant of the Refium, named Ish by Binab, whose copper spear weighed 300 shekels or almost eight pounds, and who was armed with a new sword, intended to strike David down.
However, at once, Abishai, the son of Zaryai, came to his aid and struck the Philistines down and put him to death.
This time, things were very different. David nearly lost his life when battling a giant. Why? Well, David did not lose his courage. He simply lost his strength.
The verse there says he became exhausted. And as soon as this giant noticed this moment of weakness of David, he grabbed hold of his new sword and intended, but David to death.
He wanted to take out this famous giant slayer and the king. David desperately needed help and he needed it immediately. Thankfully, in verse 17, it says, at once, immediately Abishai came to David's aid.
Think about it. David must have been so grateful for Abishai that he was keeping an eye on him and he came to take away his giant problem.
Verses 16 through 22 actually names, four different giants of the Refium of Gath, a race of giants. There was Ishbibinab, Saf, and then there was a Goliath. We don't know if that was Goliath's brother or another giant named Goliath.
And then there was an extra special giant that didn't have a name. All it says is he was a man of extra ordinary size. And what made him really special, he had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot, 24 in all.
So these giants were scary, but we know that giants are nothing compared to Jehovah. So what does this lesson help us to appreciate?
Giants are no match for Jehovah. They're no match for Jehovah's loyal servants who are backed by Jehovah. In fact, verse 22 goes on to say, these four giants fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.
However, as we constantly battle the pressures and anxieties of this wicked world, at times we too could become tired. We could become discouraged. And in such a weakened condition, we could become vulnerable to being struck down by a giant light challenge, a problem, an assignment or a responsibility.
Maybe we've dealt with successfully in the past, but now it has become very difficult for us. As we face such challenges, how comforting it is to know that we have Jehovah's love, his approval and his support.
And we also have the support of our fellow brothers and sisters who, like Abishai, keep a close eye on us and are ready to come to our aid.
We can strengthen others by simple things, by listening to them, by sending them a text, calling them, anything to show our concern for them. Yes, we need to put our thoughts into words and our words into actions.
So with Jehovah's love, approval and support, Jesus conquered the world. David and his men conquered giants. With Jehovah's help, we can conquer any problem, even a giant size once and know that Jehovah can help us be successful.